NXDOC-2221: update nuxeo-web-ui upgrade notes (#1651)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/nxdoc/web-ui/web-ui-upgrade-notes/web-ui-11-1-upgrade-notes.md

### Missing labels on actions menu

Starting from 10.3, Nuxeo introduced an `actions menu` to wrap document actions (see [NXP-25146](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-25146)). Projects that forked action elements or have custom actions based on code from 9.10 won’t display a label unless they are upgraded as described in the documentation. This is mostly a cosmetic change, as actions will still work as they previously did, without the label.

### Reference to invalid packages in the project

The reference to packages that no longer exist, such as `nuxeo-dam` or `nuxeo-spreadsheet`, or the presence of JSF specific contributions, might cause conflicts and prevent a project from working properly.

{{!--     ### nx_asset ###
    path: /default-domain/workspaces/Product Management/Documentation/Documentation Screenshots/NXDOC/Master/Web UI 11.x upgrade notes/Package removal in Studio's Application Definition
    name: app-def-package-removal.png
    1.1.3#screenshot#up_to_date
--}}

> ![Package removal in Studio's Application Definition](nx_asset://b47d5c8b-c1ba-4d2a-ab0b-8b8378d73c8d ?w=650,border=true)

Reviewer: This screenshot should be moved in the section below (DAM / Spreadsheet removal), it's meant to show that the addons that were integrated in LTS 2021 are shown as being removed in app def ;-) here it feels like it's an error.

Author: ok, thanks. You're right 👍

* Deprecated `--nuxeo-document-trash-content-min-height` in favor of `--nuxeo-document-trash-content-height` (affects `nuxeo-document-trash-content`).
* Deprecated `--nuxeo-document-creation-form-icon-width` and `--nuxeo-document-creation-form-icon-height` in favor of the mixin `--nuxeo-document-create-selection-icon` (affects `nuxeo-document-create`).

### Nuxeo dropzone API change

As of [NXP-28263](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-28263), `nuxeo-dropzone` exposes a new API that allows the element to be bound to a document field through the *value property*, which is more consistent with the API exposed by the other widgets. The previous API is deprecated but still supported (see [NXP-29391](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-29391)).

### Use of atomic permissions

Several elements of Nuxeo Web UI and Nuxeo Elements were updated to make use of `atomic permissions` instead of composite permissions. This was once one of the major causes to fork actions elements, which should now be reverted (see [WEBUI-5](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/WEBUI-5)).

### Missing labels on actions menu

> Starting from 10.3, Nuxeo introduced an `actions menu` to wrap document actions (see [NXP-25146](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-25146)). Projects that forked action elements or have custom actions based on code from 9.10 won’t display a label unless they are upgraded as described in the documentation. This is mostly a cosmetic change, as actions will still work as they previously did, without the label.

Reviewer: Could it also be an accessibility issue? If so we should mention it.

Author: Good question indeed 🤔 Maybe @semisse can help. What is your take on this one?

Reviewer 2: We have some accessibility issues with this element (especially when we take into account screen readers), but in the context of this ticket, I think the way this note is described is enough.

### Label deprecation

Since [WEBUI-116](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/WEBUI-116), the `document history` and `audit page` use the same component and the new prefix `audit`. The following are some examples of the deprecated labels and their replacement:

| Deprecated labels             | New Labels          |
|-------------------------------|---------------------|
| documentHistory.category      | audit.category      |
| documentHistory.comment       | audit.comment       |
| documentHistory.date          | audit.date          |
| documentHistory.filter.after  | audit.filter.after  |
| documentHistory.filter.before | audit.filter.before |

### Reference to invalid packages in the project

> The reference to projects that no longer exist, such as `nuxeo-dam` or `nuxeo-spreadsheet`, or the presence of JSF specific contributions, might cause conflicts and prevent a project from working properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reference to packages that no longer exist.
```

Author: You're right about being `packages` instead of `projects`. In this case, we are talking about [this](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-web-ui/blob/master/.env.sample), as this is a dev oriented upgrade notes.
I've copied these from Gabriel notes, but I am assuming that the JSF specific contributions are related with the packages as well, but maybe @Gabez0r can elaborate a bit more.

#### Nuxeo DAM addon removal

> Nuxeo DAM no longer exists as an addon and its contributions are now default on Web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nuxeo DAM no longer exists as an addon and its contributions are now default on Web UI. As a consequence, it will be seen in the removed addons list when upgrading your project in Nuxeo Studio through the application definition page.
```

Author: Please consider that this is also about upgrading projects without the use of Nuxeo Studio. Maybe we could paraphrase it to something like:

`If you're using Nuxeo Studio, you will see the Nuxeo DAM in the removed addons list when upgrading your project through the application definition page.`

Wdyt?

#### Spreadsheet addon removal

> Spreadsheet addon is now loaded by default but the button contribution is disabled. Users can rely on Studio Designer to re-enable the `spreadSheet` *button* in the `RESULTS_ACTIONS` slot (see [WEBUI-90](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/WEBUI-90)).

Reviewer: We should show a screenshot of Studio and where to find it to help.

Author: Yes, good idea. I'll add one. Any considerations about the screenshot, like for instance, the project to use?

Reviewer: ![Screenshot from 2021-01-06 10-58-47](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4656125/103755641-705f7380-500e-11eb-8f34-e254dac30cf0.png)
wdyt about this one?

Author: They look good. I uploaded them to the repo.

### BROWSER_ACTIONS slot removal

The `BROWSER_ACTIONS` nuxeo slot was removed under [NXP-26184](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-26184). It was already deprecated since Web UI 0.9 and had no known usage. It was replaced by the `RESULTS_SELECTION_ACTIONS` slot.

### Forked nuxeo-document-content might lose selection actions

> After [NXP-25345](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-25345), Nuxeo Web UI introduced the ability to override selection actions. Elements that where forked from an older version of `nuxeo-document-content` and that override the `selectionActions` native slot with new content will be missing the contributions to the `RESULTS_SELECTION_ACTIONS` nuxeo slot. This can be rectified by adding the desired actions to the new slot, and by deleting the following piece of code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After [NXP-25345](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-25345), Nuxeo Web UI introduced the ability to override selection actions. Elements that were forked from an older version of `nuxeo-document-content` and that override the `selectionActions` native slot with new content will be missing the contributions to the `RESULTS_SELECTION_ACTIONS` nuxeo slot. This can be rectified by adding the desired actions to the new slot, and by deleting the following piece of code:
```

```
<div slot=“selectionActions”>
  <nuxeo-slot slot=“BROWSE_ACTIONS” model=“[[browseActionContext]]“></nuxeo-slot>
</div>
```

### Picture document page being displayed on doctypes using the Picture facet

> Since [NXP-25740](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-25740), the `nuxeo-picture-document-page` is now displayed for documents with **facet** `Picture` instead of documents with **type** `Picture`. This means that on migrated projects, the `nuxeo-picture-document-page` might be displayed on documents where it was not expected. If this is not desirable, the contribution can simply be overridden to only display the page for documents with **type** `Picture`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since [NXP-25740](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-25740), the `nuxeo-picture-document-page` is now displayed for documents with the `Picture` **facet** instead of documents from the `Picture` **type**. This means that on migrated projects, the `nuxeo-picture-document-page` might be displayed on documents where it was not expected. If this is not desirable, the contribution can simply be overridden to only display the page for documents with the `Picture` **type**:
```

Author: 👍 Thanks

> * Removed `--nuxeo-results-view-min-height` (added in [NXP-27652](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-27652)).

Reviewer 3: This one is not necessarily a breaking change from 10.10, because it was added and removed for 11.1. But we can still leave a note, on the deprecations, maybe?

Author: Yes, we can leave a note for it 👍

* Deprecated `--nuxeo-document-content-min-height` in favor of `--nuxeo-document-content-height` (affects `nuxeo-document-content`).
* Deprecated `--nuxeo-document-trash-content-min-height` in favor of `--nuxeo-document-trash-content-height` (affects `nuxeo-document-trash-content`).

> * Deprecated `--nuxeo-document-creation-form-icon-width` and `--nuxeo-document-creation-form-icon-height` in favor of the mixin `--nuxeo-document-create-selection-icon` (affects `nuxeo-document-create`).

Reviewer 3: These three could be moved to the new deprecation section.

    name: spreadsheet-package-enable-button-designer.png
    1.1.3#screenshot#up_to_date
--}}
![Spreadsheet package enable button in Designer](nx_asset://b8fd28dd-0272-43b1-a083-dfde295c312b ?w=650,border=true)

### BROWSER_ACTIONS slot removal

The `BROWSER_ACTIONS` nuxeo slot was removed under [NXP-26184](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-26184). It was already deprecated since Web UI 0.9 and had no known usage. It was replaced by the `RESULTS_SELECTION_ACTIONS` slot.

### Forked nuxeo-document-content might lose selection actions

After [NXP-25345](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-25345), Nuxeo Web UI introduced the ability to override selection actions. Elements that were forked from an older version of `nuxeo-document-content` and that override the `selectionActions` native slot with new content will be missing the contributions to the `RESULTS_SELECTION_ACTIONS` nuxeo slot. This can be rectified by adding the desired actions to the new slot, and by deleting the following piece of code:

```
<div slot=“selectionActions”>
  <nuxeo-slot slot=“BROWSE_ACTIONS” model=“[[browseActionContext]]“></nuxeo-slot>
</div>
```

> ### Picture document page being displayed on doctypes using the Picture facet

Reviewer 3: I think we should have a `### Breaking changes`, and place this and the two above under it. Something like:

```
### Breaking changes
...
#### BROWSER_ACTIONS slot removal
...
#### Forked nuxeo-document-content might lose selection actions
...
#### Picture document page being displayed on doctypes using the Picture facet
...
```

Author: You're right. I didn't include the `### Breaking changes` from your notes because I thought we didn't want to advertise them as breaking changes, but thinking about it again, if they are really breaking changes we should state it.

Since [NXP-25740](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-25740), the `nuxeo-picture-document-page` is now displayed for documents with `Picture` **facet** instead of documents with `Picture` **type**. This means that on migrated projects, the `nuxeo-picture-document-page` might be displayed on documents where it was not expected. If this is not desirable, the contribution can simply be overridden to only display the page for documents with `Picture` **type**:

```
<nuxeo-slot-content name="pictureDocumentViewPage" slot="DOCUMENT_VIEWS_PAGES" order="5">
  <template>
    <nuxeo-filter document="[[document]]" type="Picture">
      <template>
        <nuxeo-picture-document-page name="view" document="[[document]]"></nuxeo-picture-document-page>
      </template>
    </nuxeo-filter>
  </template>
</nuxeo-slot-content>

```

> ### Deprecate usage of nuxeo-document-history

Reviewer 3: I think we should group these in a section for deprecations. Something like:

```
### Deprecations
...
#### Deprecate usage of nuxeo-document-history
...
#### Deprecated css variables
...
```

Reviewer 3: I think we are also missing the deprecation of the following CSS variables:
--nuxeo-document-creation-form-icon-width
--nuxeo-document-creation-form-icon-height
in favor of the --nuxeo-document-create-selection-icon mixin (see [NXP-27037](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-27037))

Reviewer 3: Also missing the following deprecations:
- [ELEMENTS-1012](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/ELEMENTS-1012): use `name` instead of `slot` for nuxeo slots
- [ELEMENTS-1153](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/ELEMENTS-1153): deprecated `login` test helper in favor or `MockClient`

Author: > I think we are also missing the deprecation of the following CSS variables:
> --nuxeo-document-creation-form-icon-width
> --nuxeo-document-creation-form-icon-height
> in favor of the --nuxeo-document-create-selection-icon mixin (see [NXP-27037](https://jira.nuxeo.com/browse/NXP-27037))

How did you find out the deprecation for these CSS variables?

Author: Well, in fact how did you find all these deprecations?

Reviewer 3: Did a search on VSCode for "deprecated" on Nuxeo Web UI and Nuxeo Elements projects. 😛

Author: I'll add them to the docs. Thanks

Author: Ahhhh, I know why I missed those 🤦 I'm still not used to search on both repos (web-ui and elements)😛
